# Open Grant Proposal

> This document is referenced in the terms and conditions and therefore needs to contain all the required information. Don't remove any of the mandatory parts presented in bold letters or as headlines! See the [Open Grants Program Process](https://github.com/w3f/Open-Grants-Program/blob/master/README_2.md) on how to submit a proposal.

* **Project Name:** Clover Bridge
* **Team Name:** Clover Brdige Team
* **Payment Address:** bc1q3qtn5nhy2ytv5qs3d2d5uzf0394zag88thfl5m

*The above combination of your GitHub account submitting the application and payment address will be your unique identifier during the program. Please keep them safe.*

## Project Overview :page_facing_up: 
If this application in response to an RFP then please indicate this on the first line of this section.

### Overview

#### Introduction
The Clover Bridge is a threshold signature based protocol for enabling cross-chain communication between Polkadot based networks and non-Polkadot based networks. We propose an end-2-end secure communication protocol between signers for notarising block headers from Polkadot based parachains. Notarised block headers along with a patricia merkle path, generate proof of inclusion for transactions that can be verified outside the Polkadot context. By utilizing Schnorr signatures, Clover Bridge can communicate with Turing complete-blockchains like Ethereum, and non-turing complete blockchains like Bitcoin with the upcoming BIP-Schnorr upgrade.

#### Integration
  
Polkadot uses Schnorrkel/Ristretto x25519 ("sr25519") as its key derivation and signing algorithm (https://docs.rs/schnorrkel/0.10.1/schnorrkel/). Schnorrkel implements Schnorr signature on Ristretto [ris] compressed Ed25519 points, as well as related protocols like HDKD, MuSig [MPSW19], and a verifiable random function (VRF). In particular, schnorrkel provides Schnorr signatures, a fast Schnorr DLEQ proof based VRF, hierarchical deterministic key derivation (HDKD), and the safest currently known threeround trip Schnorr multi-signature variant. Ristretto implements roughly section 7 of Mike Hamburg’s Decaf paper [Ham15] to providethe 2-torsion free points of the Ed25519 curve as a prime order group. Avoiding the cofactor like this means Ristretto makes implementing more complex protocols significantly safer. We employ Blake2b for most conventional hashing in Polkadot, where schnorrkel/sr25519 itself uses the merlin limited implementation of Mike Hamberg’s STROBE, which is based on Keccak-f(1600) and provides a hashing interface well suited to signatures and NIZKs.

#### Team Interest
The decentralized financial networks of today remain isolated in silos that cannot trustlessly communicate with each other and meaningfully exchange value. This led to some third party custodial services who make the overall ecosystem more centralized, taking away the essence of what blockchain is all about. To achieve a new-level of interoperability, Clover created the model of threshold block notarisation protocol that allows seamless cross-chain communication and trustless two-ways pegs between blockchains. 


### Project Details 

#### Technology stack
We are using eliptic curve notation for the discrete logarithm problem, and a verifiable Secret Sharing scheme (VSS) to prevent dealers from cheating where each signatory can verify their own share. The communication between the signatories are done through gRPC services with mutual SSL/TLS protocol. This protocol will only work with the certificates generated by the same internal Certificate Authority (CA). 


#### Architecture 
[https://www.dropbox.com/s/z3o7l9tnd2fjue8/clover-bridge-threshold-signatures.pdf](https://www.dropbox.com/s/z3o7l9tnd2fjue8/clover-bridge-threshold-signatures.pdf)

### Ecosystem Fit 
Clover Bridge, whose key role is to bridge varios blockchains, aims to become a top-standard protocl that highly incentives users, developers, and upper-layer applications. We will establish a developer-centric community to encourage third party developers to utilize Clover Bridge for their decentralized applications. 


## Team :busts_in_silhouette:

### Team members

#### Viven Kirby
* Email: viven@clover.finance

* Role: Project Lead

* LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/viven-kirby

* GitHub: https://github.com/Winless

#### Burak Keceli
* Email: burak@clover.finance

* Role: Technical Lead

* LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/burak-ke%C3%A7eli/

* GitHub: https://github.com/brqgoo

#### Norelle Ng
* Email: viven@clover.finance

* Role: Operations Lead

* LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/norelleng

* GitHub: https://github.com/Winless


#### Mehmet Sabir Kiraz
* Email: mehmet@clover.finance

* Role: Appield Cryptography Lead

* LinkedIn: https://uk.linkedin.com/in/mehmet-sabir-kiraz-38a4963

* Google Scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=1NzyjZIAAAAJ&hl=en

#### Suleyman Kardas
* Email: suleyman@clover.finance

* Role: Senior Architect

* LinkedIn: https://tr.linkedin.com/in/dr-s%C3%BCleyman-karda%C5%9F-76a23711

* GitHub: https://github.com/skardas

* Google Scholar: https://scholar.google.com.tr/citations?user=LjqSAX0AAAAJ&hl=en


### Contact
- burak@clover.finance

### Legal Structure 
Clover, Inc. (Registration Number: 2045136)
Unit 8, 3/F, Qwomar Trading Complex, Blackburne Road, Port Purcell, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, VG1110

### Team's experience

As a collective, the founding team has been working together for a almost about a year. We all come from different and unique walks of life, backgrounds, and experiences which really makes us a dynamic and strong team complementing one another's skill sets. Burak is based in the Bay Area, Mehmet in UK, Suleyman in Turkey, Norelle and Viven are based in Toronto. It is neat operating as a team across the globe because we can tap into different markets and bring different things to the table. 

Within the team, Burak and Viven have known each other for 4 years and have worked together on a number of projects. Mehmet and Suleyman on the pther hand have known each other for 10 years, and worked together on a number of projects while they were at TUBITAK BILGEM between 2010 and 2015. They have not only done several applied projects together but also published several papers together (see Google Scholar for their common academic papers). Mehmet is expert on cryptographic design, architecture (in particular, blockchain and cryptocurrencies, secure multi-party computation, homomorphic encryption, threshold cryptography, zero knowledge proofs (zkSNARKs and Bulletproofs)) and mathematical structures of cryptography, where Suleyman is experienced on cryptographic analysis as well as implementation aspects of cryptographic algorithms/protocols. Mehmet and Burak have known each other for 3 years, and worked together on a number of projects including a brand-new on-chain scaling approach for zero-confirmation BTC payments. Burak initially came up with the idea of combining zkSNARKs with ePassports after Apple confirmed iOS 13 to include support for NFC passport reading. Mehmet and Burak then started playing around with the idea, before Suleyman joined the team.

### Team Code Repos
*	https://github.com/clover-network/clover-bridge-protocol

This is the main repo for the n of m threshold protocol for notarising Ethereum and Clover block headers.

* https://github.com/clover-network/clover-bridge-contract

This is the repo for Clover-deployed bridge contract where block header submission, key update, signatory join request, and signatory leave request events take place. Clover Bridge Protocol writes and reads to and from this contract. @bayMaxChallenge will be responsible for this repository.

* https://github.com/clover-network/ethereum-spv-backend

This API repo is for fetching merkle path (SPV proof) data from Ethereum.

* https://github.com/clover-network/clover-spv-backend

This API repo is for fetching merkle path (SPV proof) data from Clover.

* https://github.com/clover-network/clover-pegout-contract

This is the Clover-deployed peg out contract repo for tokenizing Ether and ERC-20 assets on Clover. This contract accepts SPV proofs from Ethereum (ethereum-spv-backend), along with respective notary proofs from Clover Bridge Contract (clover-bridge-contract).

* https://github.com/clover-network/ethereum-pegin-contract

This is the Ethereum-deployed peg in contract repo for redeeming Ether and ERC-20 assets back on Ethereum. This contract accepts SPV proofs from Clover (clover-spv-backend), along with respective notary proofs from Clover Bridge Contract (clover-bridge-contract).


## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt: 

### Overview
* **Total Estimated Duration:** 3 months
* **Full-time equivalent (FTE):**  11.5
* **Total Costs:** 0.51 BTC

### April 15 Due Milestone
* **Estimated Duration:** 1 month
* **FTE:**  5.5
* **Costs:** 0.17 BTC

| Number | Deliverable | Language/Framework | Specification |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1. | Threshold Logic | Text/PDF | Start documentation of the various aspect of the Clover Bridge protocol. |
| 2. | Ethereum SPV API | Go | A back-end service for fetching merkle path for transactions from Ethereum | 
| 3. | Clover SPV API | Go | A back-end service for fetching merkle path for transactions from Frontier-powered parachains. | 
| 4. | SPV Logic | Text/PDF | Documenting contract-wise logic for SPV verification. |  
| 5. | Threshold PoC | Go | Delivering an inital version for the threshold logic. |

### May 15 Due Milestone
* **Estimated Duration:** 1 month
* **FTE:**  5.5
* **Costs:** 0.17 BTC

| Number | Deliverable | Language/Framework | Specification |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1. | Peg-in contract logic | Text/PDF | Documenting contract-wise logic for peg ins. |
| 2. | Peg-out contract logic | Text/PDF | Documenting contract-wise logic for peg outs. |
| 3. | Bridge contract logic | Text/PDF | Documenting contract-wise logic for bridge flow. |
| 4. | Threshold MVP | Go | Delivering an MVP version of the threshold protocol. |
| 5. | Contract SPV | Solidity | Contract-wise SPV verification.  |
| 6. | Contract Threshold  | Solidity | Contract-wise threshold signature verification. |


### June 15 Due Milestone
* **Estimated Duration:** 1 month
* **FTE:**  5.5
* **Costs:** 0.17 BTC

| Number | Deliverable | Language/Framework | Specification |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1. | Signatory registery  | Go/Solidity | Contract-wise signatory registery flow. |
| 2. | Signatory leave  | Go/Solidity | Contract-wise signatory leave flow. |
| 3. | Key update  | Go/Solidity | Key update ceromony. |
| 4. | Peg in contract | Solidity | Final delivery of peg in contract. |
| 5. | Peg out contract | Solidity | Final delivery of peg out contract. |


## Future Plans
Clover’s SPV simulation technology will soon be able to trustlessly peg-in and peg-out Ether and Ethereum based assets with Clover testnet. Supporting Bitcoin however, requires further upgrades to Bitcoin Core. The two upgrades required are splice opcodes and an arbitrary signature verification opcode. Thankfully, BIP-Tapscript proposes to allow future soft forks to introduce new opcode functionalities without breaking backwards compatibility. BIP-Tapscript at the bottom also mentions OP_CHECKSIGFROMSTACK as a candidate for future opcodes which is required for Clover to build Bitcoin-native covenants via transaction introspection. BIP-Schnorr is on the other hand proposing to activate Schnorr signatures, which is also required for Clover to convince the Bitcoin script to validate Clover block headers that are being produced by Schnorr-compatible n of m threshold validators. Clover will roll out Bitcoin two-way peg support when respective upgrades are activated on Bitcoin Core in the next few years.
