# ISO20022 PoC 

- **Team Name:** Open Smart Contract
- **Payment Address:** 3GTe5ArJLC8jesr6UFtB9kcoguQmvo8Cuo
- **[Level](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/tree/master#level_slider-levels):** 2


## Project Overview 

Response to [RFP 20022](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/docs/RFPs/Open/ISO_20022.md)

Project name: ISO20022 PoC

Cross border payment example as proof of concepts,leveraging the unique [Off-Chain Features of Substrate](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/concepts/off-chain-features/) that show the advantages of using [ISO20022](https://www.iso20022.org/) together with Substrate. 

### Overview

Please provide the following:

- The project is an [ISO20022](https://www.iso20022.org/) based cross-border payment proof of concepts implemented with Substrate off-chain features 
- A brief description: Proof of concepts of Dotsama / Substrate based ISO20022 compliant cross border payment example. 
- The project intends to use various Substrate pallets and off-chain workers / storage to implement an ISO20022 X-border payment example on a Polkadot / Kusama chain 
- ISO (International Organization for Standardization) 20022 is becoming the de facto global data standard for payments and electronic data interchange already adopted by many countries. Polkadot / Substrate based cross border payments can provide blockchain based payment efficiency, cost savings and interoperability with financial institutions, onramping billions of users to the ecossystem. 

### Project Details

We expect the teams to already have a solid idea about your project's expected final state. Therefore, we ask the teams to submit (where relevant):

- Mockups/designs of any UI components
	- 	Use Contracts-UI (or Polkadot.js) UI interface to interact with deployed smart contracts

- Data models / API specifications of the core functionality
	- ISO20022 XML data models that captures essential payment metadata 
	- ISO20022 data types to Polkadot data types / XCM mapping table
	- Data securedly stored offchain 
	- APIs to create, manage, query, notify payments
- An overview of the technology stack to be used
	- Substrate Offchain workers to process compute intensive tasks such as ISO20022 message wrangling
	- Substrate offchain storage / indecing to persist string heavy ISO20022 messages
	- ISO20022 messages parsing / mapping / processing using OCWs
	- Substrate XCM for ISO20020 messaging  
	- Utility / Codec / RPC / etc.
	- X-border payment ink! smart contracts with access control security
- Documentation of core components, protocols, architecture, etc. to be deployed
	- Substrate based blockchain, including testchains to deploy as sandbox
	- ink! / Rust based smart contracts implementing X-border payment logic
	- Payment history along with ISO20022 messages stored offchian with indexing
	- Expensive ISO20020 related computation by offchian workers with onchain accessibility
	- ISO20022 messaging supported by XCMP with XCM <> ISO20020 data format translations  
- PoC/MVP or other relevant prior work or research on the topic
	- Our research shows that multiple gaps exist to support ISO20022 compliant cross border payment use case  
		- There's big ata type compatibility gaps between Polkadot and IS20022, such as date and time, currency, float, array, etc. 
		- There's no out of box support of SO20022 XML processing and mapping such as XSD transformations 
		- There's no built-in data validation, message routing, payment securties, etc.  
		- There's no native foreign exchanage / currency conversion capabilities
		- There's no payment states reflecting current cross border payment flow states 
	- What your project is _not_ or will _not_ provide or implement
  - This is not a complete cross border payment system given the scope of proof of concepts 
  - Likely this is the first ISO20022 project on Dotsama, there could be unexpected gaps discovered
  - This is not a full blown IS20022 implementation on Dotsama / Substrate but explore to expose gaps for future endeavors    

Things that shouldn’t be part of the application (see also our [FAQ](../docs/faq.md)):
- The (future) tokenomics of your project 
- For non-infrastructure projects—deployment and hosting costs, maintenance or audits
- Business-oriented activities (marketing, business planning), events or outreach

### Ecosystem Fit

Help us locate your project in the Polkadot/Substrate/Kusama landscape and what problems it tries to solve by answering each of these questions:

- Where and how does your project fit into the ecosystem?
	- According to the RDP: "The goal of this RFP is to find teams that implement tools that make it easy and possible for the traditional finance industry to leverage substrate and ink! smart contracts to interact with ISO 20022 in various ways"
- Who is your target audience (parachain/dapp/wallet/UI developers, designers, your own user base, some dapp's userbase, yourself)?
	- Targeting ecosystem develpopers to levearage on the learning and tools to further develop ISO20022 compitable dApps, to make it possible for transitional financial institutions to interoprate with Polkadot / Kusama / Substrate blockchains based payment apps. 
- What need(s) does your project meet?
	- Explore possibilities and gaps of Polkadot / Substrate support of ISO20022 standard for future improvements 
- Are there any other projects similar to yours in the Substrate / Polkadot / Kusama ecosystem?
  - If so, how is your project different?
  - If not, are there similar projects in related ecosystems? There are known blockchains already claim to support ISO20020 such as Ripple XRP, XLM, Algorand, etc. 

## Team 

### Team members

- Name of team leader: Daniel Deng

### Contact

- **Contact Name:** Daniel Deng
- **Contact Email:** OpenSmartContract@gmail.com
- **Website:** 

### Legal Structure

- **Registered Address:** No registred entity
- **Registered Legal Entity:** No registred entity

### Team's experience

Please describe the team's relevant experience. If your project involves development work, we would appreciate it if you singled out a few interesting projects or contributions made by team members in the past. 

Daniel is the Chief Product Officer at HeroDAO where he has led blockchain based smart contract products and development on Polkodot / Kusama blockchains. Previous at Meta he managed crypto (Libra / Diem) and fiat payments and web3 initiatives. Prior to that, he was Senior Director of Product Management at Visa managing Visa's global payment product portfolios and platforms.

Here's a recent[ Medium article](https://medium.com/@opensmartcontract/learn-ink-by-example-order-food-on-blockchain-a4024b2dee4a) on ink! smart contract with Rust macros implementing dApp on Dotsama chain, with [Smart Contract Deployment and Interaction Guide using Contracts-UI and Polkadot.js](https://github.com/InkSmartContract/BlockchainFoodOrder/blob/main/BlockchainFoodOrder%20Smart%20Contract%20Deployment%20and%20Interactions%20Guide.pdf).        

### Team Code Repos

- [Order Food on the Blockchain](https://github.com/InkSmartContract/BlockchainFoodOrder)

Please also provide the GitHub accounts of all team members. If they contain no activity, references to projects hosted elsewhere or live are also fine.

- [GitHub1](https://github.com/OpenSmartContract) 
- [Github2](https://github.com/FPLeader) 

### Team LinkedIn Profiles (if available)

- [Profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dengdaniel)


## Development Status 

If you've already started implementing your project or it is part of a larger repository, please provide a link and a description of the code here. In any case, please provide some documentation on the research and other work you have conducted before applying. This could be:

- [RFPs](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/tree/master/docs/RFPs) (requests for proposal)
- [Blockchain Food Order dApp](https://github.com/InkSmartContract/BlockchainFoodOrder/blob/main/Learn%20ink!%20by%20Example%20%E2%80%94%20Order%20Food%20on%20the%20Blockchain.pdf)
- [Smart Contract Deployment and Interaction Guide using Contracts-UI and Polkadot.js](https://github.com/InkSmartContract/BlockchainFoodOrder/blob/main/BlockchainFoodOrder%20Smart%20Contract%20Deployment%20and%20Interactions%20Guide.pdf)


## Development Roadmap 

This section should break the development roadmap down into milestones and deliverables. To assist you in defining it, we have created a document with examples for some grant categories [here](../docs/Support%20Docs/grant_guidelines_per_category.md). Since these will be part of the agreement, it helps to describe _the functionality we should expect in as much detail as possible_, plus how we can verify and test that functionality. Whenever milestones are delivered, we refer to this document to ensure that everything has been delivered as expected.

Below we provide an **example roadmap**. In the descriptions, it should be clear how your project is related to Substrate, Kusama or Polkadot. We _recommend_ that teams structure their roadmap as 1 milestone ≈ 1 month.

### Overview

- **Total Estimated Duration:** ~3 months
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):**  1,3 FTE
- **Total Costs:** 30K USD 

### Milestone 1 Example — Basic functionality

- **Estimated duration:** ~1-2 months
- **FTE:**  1,2
- **Costs:** 15K USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide documents of the following |
| 1. | Define the use case | Degine the cross border payment use case with persona and end-to-end flow | 
| 2. | ISO20022 XML <> Polkadot XCM data mapping | Identify data types gaps and solutions for the use case| 
| 3. | ISO20022 <> Polkadot messaging | Identify XCMP messaging gaps and solutions for the use case | 
| 4. | Define offchain data storage | Define offchain data storage for ISO20022 messages and X-border payments in this use case |
| 5. | Define offchian worker module | Define OCW logic to handle ISO20022 messag processing and X-border payments in this use case |
| 6. | Define Smart contracts | Define ink! smart contracts to implement X-border payments in this use case |


### Milestone 2 Example — Additional features

- **Estimated Duration:** ~1-2 months
- **FTE:**  1,3
- **Costs:** 15K USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide both **inline documentation** of the code and a basic **tutorial** that explains how a user can (for example) spin up one of our Substrate nodes and send test transactions, which will show how the new functionality works. |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish a Medium **article** that explains this proof of concepts example with results |
| 1. | Develop offchain data storage | Data structure and storage of X-border payment histories and related ISO20022 messages |
| 2. | Develop offchian worker module | ISO20022 message mapping, processing and messaging for X-border payment logic |
| 3. | Develop Smart contracts | We will deliver a set of ink! smart contracts that implements the cross border payment flow deployed on Shibuya test chain|
| 4. | Develop Substrate module ISO20022 | Optional Substrate module if needed that implements ISO20022 message processing logic |

## Future Plans

Please include here

- Publish learning and share with the community, similar to this [ Medium article](https://medium.com/@opensmartcontract/learn-ink-by-example-order-food-on-blockchain-a4024b2dee4a) and/or [Contracts-UI and Polkadot.js Smart Contract Deployment and Interaction Guide](https://github.com/InkSmartContract/BlockchainFoodOrder/blob/main/BlockchainFoodOrder%20Smart%20Contract%20Deployment%20and%20Interactions%20Guide.pdf)
- Long term we intend to expand this ISO20022 proof of concepts to develop reusable tools / apps to bring Dotsama closer to ISO20022 

## Referral Program (optional)

You can find more information about the program [here](../README.md#moneybag-referral-program).
- **Referrer:** N/A
- **Payment Address:**  N/A

## Additional Information 

**How did you hear about the Grants Program?** Web3 Foundation Website and previous work interactions 

Here you can also add any additional information that you think is relevant to this application but isn't part of it already, such as:
