# Logos Network - PoC (part one)

- **Team Name:** LogosLabs
- **Payment Address:** Fiat (Mail: Sun, 21 Jan 2024 19:49:59 +0100 (CET))
- **[Level](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/tree/master#level_slider-levels):** 1

## Project Overview :page_facing_up:

### Overview
Logos Network will be a decentralized computing environment acting as the underlying layer (sub0layer) to a Web3 infrastructure (layer-0 and layer-1).

The fundamental idea behind the Logos project is to establish an ecosystem, which shall provide the community with compute power generated by the community.
The Logos network strives to create a community computer that belongs to everybody and to no one.
An autonomous network to provide, receive and share compute-power.
The development of the Logos network will incorporate, in addition to in-house developments, a variety of existing technologies, tailored to the specific requirements of this type of network.
The main aspects which define the philosophy of the Logos ecosystem are: IaC (Infrastructure as code), autonomous solutions, security and decentralization.
After the successful release of Logos network (v1.0) the sudo privileges, and thereby the only means to act upon the network structure, will be relinquished to the community, who will be able to take advantage of those privileges under a set of governance systems.

The Logos chain will be developed as a "parachain" (layer-1) based on a substrate framework to provide the Web3 and the Polkadot Ecosystem with computational ressources (sub0layer). 
During the development, new smart contract types (pallets) will be developed or the existing ones will be modified and implemented in the substrate framework.
From LogosLabs' perspective the decentralized approach is "the way to go" for the future.

The core focus of Web3 and blockchain technology is decentralization and to eliminate the need of reliance on a third party.
Nowadays it's evident that a large number of blockchain nodes, the backbone of decentralized structures, are hosted with big cloud providers (centralized structure (Azure, AWS, Google Cloud, ...)), thus defeating the purpose of true decentralization.
Services that provide a platform to easily deploy Web3 nodes rely on such big cloud providers, consequently relinquishing security, price and trust of those networks back to big companies.
Many who want to support those networks choose to use such services because of the complexity of the node setups. 
The Logos network will aim to deliver a sub0layer solution, so that every willing participant will be able to take part in a truly decentralized and community-secured infrastructure.
The so called "layer-0" blockchains, which make up the Web3 infrastructure itself, are often hosted on conventional cloud services, reverting the infrastructure to a centralized one. 
Therefore a sub0layer is required, to secure and decentralize those "hosted" nodes again.

### Project Details
The following section contains only an overview.
The detailed description and the visualizations can be found within the concept: [Conceptual overview of the Logos Network](https://logoslabs.io/concept/conceptual-overview-of-the-logos-network.pdf)

#### **Introduction**
The Logos network will provide a secure **Web3 core compute infrastructure**, the resources of which are provided by the community. 
The infrastructure will be defined, secured and executed by a blockchain.
It is important to underline that the approach is not the provision of an oracle, it is an attempt to operate the DVCI on-chain. 
The execution times of smart contracts do not play a major role in the overall network efficiency, since at this service layer participating nodes should not be affected.
From our perspective, the Logos network is the manifestation of what is defined on the blockchain.
The network will consist of three main components: the **DVCI (Distributed Virtual Computing Infrastructure)**, the **Logos Chain** and a **Network Gatekeeper** and will be utilizied via the **Smart Contract Logic**.

#### DVCI
The DVCI will act as a "data center" where a blockchain will be utilized to ensure the security of operations.
These infrastructure combines community-provided resources and dedicates those resources to "servers" with virtual environments.
The DVCI is fully defined on the blockchain (code) and will be supplied with enough physical hardware (community-provided resources and LogosLabs hosted dedicatetd root server) for its execution.

#### Logos Chain
The Logos chain (blockchain component) is the basis for the Logos network.
Through the implementation of the DVCI into a blockchain, LogosLabs aims to create an additional security layer (sub0layer). 
The Logos chain will be developed as a layer-1 blockchain (parachain) and be used to create and secure the sub0layer utilizing Smart Contract Logic, also being responsible for the implementation of certain functionalities (access to LN, payment options, transparency, ...) for web2 based services.
The Logos chain will not be a public smart contract platform like Moonbeam, Astar, Phala Network, Cardano, etc.
An independent chain will have to be deployed to ensure specific smart contract implementations (type of SC, privacy features, SC configurations, ...). 
In order to create an efficient "system chain" all smart contracts on the Logos chain will have to be dedicated exclusively to the Logos network.
Smart contracts should only be triggered by the network gatekeeper, thus requiring a hybrid approach to confidentiality (public and private).

#### Smart Contract Logic
The **Smart Contract Logic (SCL)**, simply speaking is a comprehensive set of smart contracts, tasked with the execution of case specific instructions and measures.
Four types of contracts should be defined on the Logos chain:
**configuration smart contract (CSC)**, **operation smart contract (OSC)**, **supply smart contract (SSC)** and **web2to3 smart contract (W2t3SC)**. 
The first three smart contract types (configuration, operation and supply) are used to implement, secure and provision the DVCI, while the fourth type focuses on the provision of the "infrastructure" for web2 based services. 

**CSC:** The configuration smart contracts are intended to store the DVCI configurations in several central smart contracts. 
This makes it easier to manage and simplify the configuration data.
In a smart contract that manages configurations, each key-value pair represents a specific configuration or setting (important parameters or options for the system).

**OSC:** The OSCs perform certain operations or execution logic based on the configurations.
They will access CSCs in order to retrieve relevant configurations.

**SSC:** The supply contract type will be developed in such a way that the network gatekeeper and the W3bI (network provision service) can be defined and implemented on the chain. 
The technical implementation is not yet completely clarified, as there is the idea of splitting the supply contracts into configurations and operations elements. 
In principle, these will be contracts that support the DVCI operations.

**W2t3SC:** should be a conventional smart contract as it does not have to fulfill any special requirements.
This type of contract should enable the automated integration of web2 based services on the Logos network so that the resources of the network can be accessed.

The Substrate contract pallet, as provided by default, focuses primarily on the creation and management of smart contracts within the Substrate framework. 
However, what the Substrate contract pallet does not feature directly, are the functions for use cases, such as the separate storage and management of configuration data in standalone smart contracts.
If configurations are stored in separate smart contract, they can be implemented modularly and reused by various other smart contracts. This enhances the reusability of code and configurations.
Separate smart contracts for configurations make it also possible to update configuration data independently of the main contract (operations smart contract). 
This can be useful if configurations need to be modified.

To implement a system for storing configurations in independent smart contracts, separate solutions must be developed within the contracts' pallet. 
This may involve the creation of separate smart contracts for the management of configuration data or the development of special interfaces and protocols for communication and interaction between different contracts.
The smart contracts will be developed with Rust and the ink! Framework and compiled in Wasm bytecode so that they can be executed on the Substrate-based Logos chain.
The entire implementation of the smart contract logic will be provided with the PoC, as implementation solutions still need to be developed.

#### Network Gatekeeper
The network gatekeeper, one of the most important component of the Logos network, will take on a multitude of tasks. 
The communication between the DVCI and the blockchain will entirely depend on the network gatekeeper. 
Another crucial duty of the network gatekeeper will be the oversight of node behavior, in case of deviation of default node behavior, exclusion of affected participants and determination of the future procedure regarding those participants.
Simply speaking, this kind of middleware (network gatekeeper) will be used to define the DVCI and to ensure the validity of its operations on the blockchain.
The network gatekeeper (entirely) will be defined and executed on the Logos chain in the form of SSCs.

#### **Configuration and operation management approach**
The Logos network should be built as an automated or autonomous network.
This can be achieved by using several existing technologies (Ansible, Terraform, ...), approaches and principles (GitOps, IaC CI/CD, ...).
What makes the Logos network different in relation to IaC is that the code that will be executed by the IaC tools is on the blockchain in form of smart contracts.
Desired states or certain instructions of the infrastructure are defined on the blockchain.
The generation of transactions that trigger smart contracts is to be automated, which will be achieved by the Logos network gatekeeper component. 
Simply explained, the relevant network gatekeeper components should accept different instructions from the DVCI components, create transactions from them and execute them on the blockchain.
Another important strategy is the use of GitOps principles with CI/CD (continuous integration/continuous delivery) practices.
These practices aim to automate the development process, shorten the development cycles, improve the quality of the code and create the possibility of fast and reliable deployments.
From version 1.0 we intend to hand over the sudo rights to the community, this approach should enable transparency, controlled and easy access (for community authorized participants) and management of the network.

#### **Services**
Services supported by the Logos Ecosystem will have access to computational resources provided by the DVCI (sub0layer).
The decision over the inclusion of a service into the network or a potential increase in compute power allocated to a service shall be, under the Logos network philosophy, ruled on by the community.
The Logos network philosophy will be precisely defined by the first three services (W3bI, EduCo, SciCo).
The Logos ecosystem core service (W3bI), which will provide the fundamental computational infrastructure (for web3/blockchain infrastructure), shall be developed first. 
In addition to W3bI, two Web2 services shall be integrated (educational compute service - EduCo and scientific compute service - SciCo).
The Logos network itself and the first three hosted services will be developed by LogosLabs. 
After the completed development (version 1.0) of the network, control over the network will be handed over to the community. 
The EduCo and SciCo services will continue to operate on the Logos network until the completion of the lease-time or as long as they fulfill the Logos network philosophy. The same Logos network philosophy requirements applied to W3bI will be applied to all other services, but as W3bI is the core service of the ecosystem, the service will not have a conventional lease time as it is intended to facilitate the implementation of the Logos network itself into the World Wide Web.
The W3bI service will be developed and operated by LogosLabs in accordance with fair-price principles defined in the Logos network philosophy.
The Logos network philosophy can be considered a kind of license.
This means that the specifications of the Logos network philosophy can be "enforced" by defined regulations in the SCL.
The approach of W3bI is to facilitate the provision of computational resources (Logos network resources) and not to be a profit oriented service.

#### **Summary**
The Logos network should be autonomous, blockchain-based, provided and controlled by the community and not really "owned" by anyone.
The aim is to create a common-good computational environment that supports the Web3, education and science areas.
The Logos network with all its components will be developed as an open source project under the Apache 2.0 license.
All existing technologies which we will use to build the network in this form, are open source projects under the Apache 2.0, GPL2 or MIT license. 
The already existing technologies are to be "implemented" in order to expand the functionalities of the "blockchain" and not to transfer them ("one-to-one") "onto" the blockchain.
By establishing the sub0layer, we want to implement a new segment that allows the core computational infrastructure to be separated from the blockchain infrastructure so that they can be managed and deployed separately.
Such an approach makes it possible that the computation of the actual blochain nodes can be executed securely and decentralized and the blockchain (not DApp) developers do not have to care about the security of the computing environment.

### Ecosystem Fit

We aim to provide a "community enterprise computational solution", based on the Blochain technology, for the Web3 and the Polakdot ecosystem.
The Web3 infrastructure is created by "designating" blockchain nodes to layer-0 and layer-1 blockchains.
The main focus of LogosLabs is to further secure the environment where these nodes (layer-0 and layer-1) will be executed (sub0layer).
Although Web3 provides a wide spectrum of security and development possibilities, the fact that participants are hosting nodes with big cloud providers, contradicts a true Web3 decentralized approach.

The cost for compute-power shared by the Logos ecosystem (logos network/sub0layer) will be defined, under a strict and fair set of rules, by the community itself.

This sub0layer will also be applicable to Web2 based services to accelerate the migration to Web3.
This is how we want to encourage this migration, so that Web2 based applications/services can be secured by layer-0/layer-1 protocols, transforming those App's to DApp's of decentralized nature.

Phala Network (Polkadot ecosystem) and Theta Network have the same approach as we do, to use community provided resources to contribute to the web3.
The implementation and the purpose of the networks (Phala, Theta, Logos) on the other hand differ significantly.
Theta is a blockchain based community computational infrastructure for video, AI and entertainment and Phala provids dApp developers with an "on-chain/off-chain" community compute infrastructure. 
Another project similar to the Logos Network project is the Internet Computer (ICP).
The ICP is a general-purpose blockchain that hosts canister smart contracts (canisters are smart contracts that scale - interoperable compute units designed for internet-scale services) and the computational resources for their execution are provided by the "community" (provided in multiple data centers worldwide).
As mentioned before the Logos Project aims to provide an underlaying computational layer (sub0layer) to a Web3 infrastructure (layer-0 and layer-1 blochain nodes), as to certain Web2 based services.
The Network will provide a specialized form of an "autonomus core cloud infrastructure", whereas the actual blockchain and service functionalities remain the responsibility of the developers of these blockchains and services.

## Team :busts_in_silhouette:

### Team members
- Amar Colakovic
- Angela Popa
- Eugen Stoyanov

### Contact

- **Contact Name:** Eugen Stoyanov
- **Contact Email:** e.s@logoslabs.io
- **Website:** [https://logoslabs.io](https://logoslabs.io)

### Legal Structure

- **Registered Address:** not currently available
- **Registered Legal Entity:** not currently available

### Team's experience

Both technical team members bring a spectrum of technological knowledge and experience from different areas. They have continuously worked on the implementation of new technologies and their adoption to create enterprise solutions, including the migration of legacy systems to new standards. Both have been involved in the transformation from monolithic to microservice-oriented architecture, the establishment of Infrastructure as Code (IaC) instead of "Snowflake", the switch from application servers to containers, the move from CVS to GIT and the integration of DevOps and GitOps principles in the enterprise banking environment.

**Amar Colakovic** - [CV](https://logoslabs.io/cvs/amar) :  
brings a background of more than five years of expertise in the complex banking and enterprise sector. 
He has particular experience in the areas of data security, data privacy and the handling of confidential data. 
His competence also extends to the successful migration of IT systems from monolithic to microservice architectures. 
He has been involved in the conceptualization and development of a Kubernetes banking platform based on DevOps principles. 
His work involved the entire technology stack, encompassing the configuration of data center infrastructure, deployment of network infrastructure, and provision of a Platform as a Service (PaaS). 
This included integrating observability and monitoring tools, continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) tools, as well as implementing necessary security solutions.
The responsibility for the maintenance and operation of this platform underlines the in-depth understanding of the complexity and dynamics of modern IT landscapes.

**Angela Popa** - [CV](https://logoslabs.io/cvs/angela) :  
In her early IT career, she worked as a JavaEE Software Engineer, were she developed web applications (frontend and backend) for the automotive, banking and energy sector.
As a software engineer at it's core, she evolved in the last years to a DevOps Engineer, supporting developer teams in their migration journey towards build and deployment automation. Among her responsabilities were the development and maintainance of the build and deployment pipelines in an on-premise enterprise environment. There she gained working experience with CI/CD tools and platforms like GitLab Pipelines, Artifactory, ArgoCD, Kubernetes.
She also contributed to the European Union's effort for energy efficiency in buildings, in form of a thesis and a subsequent scientific paper ([A Semantically Data-Driven Classification Framework for Energy Consumption in Buildings](https://www.mdpi.com/1996-1073/15/9/3155)), where the focus was on data processing with Python.

### Team Code Repos

- https://github.com/logoslabstech/logos-resources

**Team members:**

- https://github.com/h3rak1it (Amar Colakovic)
- https://github.com/angelapopa (Angela Popa)

### Team LinkedIn Profiles

- [Angela Popa](https://at.linkedin.com/in/angela-popa-196253185)

## Development Status :open_book:

The concept of the Logos Network was published on 21 January 2024. 
This concept will be used as the base for the PoC and the creation of the technical documentation. 
In this paper, the necessity of the Logos Network is described, challenges and possible solutions for its provision, as well as the possibilities that the network should offer.

- [Conceptual overview of the Logos Network](https://logoslabs.io/concept/conceptual-overview-of-the-logos-network.pdf)

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt:

> **INFO**  
> The PoC is structured in 3 phases.
> - In PoC phase one, the Smart Contrac Logic is to be clearly specified and provided with the basic functionalities.
> - In phase two, a PoC Logos Chain is to be developed in which the Smart Contrac Logic modules are implemented within the runtime. Furthermore, in this phase the Network Gatekeeper should be clearly defined and implemented with the basic functionalities.
>- In the third and final phase of the PoC, the DVCI will be realized by the previously developed and provided (alpha version) components.
> 
> After the PoC is completed, the following data and documents should be available: 
> - Technical specification paper (the document provides precise and specific information about the technical specifications of the Logos network, which will provide  the standardized basis for the development, implementation and testing of a technical product)
>
> - Technical documentation (includes a wide range of documents covering many aspects of the product. This includes operating instructions, maintenance manuals, installation instructions, user manuals, API documentation, etc.)

- **Total Estimated Duration:** 3 months (whole project 9 months)
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):** 1,5 FTE (average)
- **Total Costs:**  10,000 USD

### Milestone 1 PoC (part one) - Smart Contract Logic specification

- **Estimated duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  1
- **Costs:** 2500 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide a **paragraph/section** about the subject of this milestones in the **Logos Network technical specification paper** as well as a **wiki article** (github-wiki), which will explain in detail the Smart Contrac Logic and how it will be utilized in the Substrate ecosystem and the Logos network.|
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | We will not provide unit tests or guides in this milestone. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will not provide a Dockerfile(s) in this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an **article** after the milestone is completed, which explains the outcome of the work being done in this milestone. |
| 1. | Smart Contract Logic - architecture elaboration  | We will elaborate on two different architecture approaches<br> - **Smart Contract Logic as one Substrate module**<br> - **Smart Contract Logic as a three independent Substrates modules**<br> and provide the requied documentation as a separate article about the architectural decisions.|
| 2. | Smart Contract Logic - architecture specification | We will provide the specifications and description for the Smart Contract Logic. This includes a detailed design of the **architecture**, the **execution logic** and the **base functionalities** as well as the **core-operations** taking place within the Smart Contract Logic. (reference: [concept](https://logoslabs.io/concept/conceptual-overview-of-the-logos-network.pdf) - section 2.2.3 ) 

### Milestone 2 PoC (part one) - Smart Contract types / pallets (modules) specification 

- **Estimated duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  1,5
- **Costs:** 3750 USD

> **IMPORTANT!**  
> This milestone depends on the milestone 1  
> For this reason, in this milestone specification, the notation "OR" is used to identify every possible deliverable.

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide a **paragraph/section** about the subject of this milestones in the **Logos Network technical specification paper** as well as a **wiki article** (github-wiki), which will explain in detail the Smart Contrac Logic and how it will be utilized in the Substrate ecosystem and the Logos network.|
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | We will not provide unit tests or guides in this milestone. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will not provide a Dockerfile(s) in this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an **article** after the milestone is completed, that explains the outcome of the work being done in this milestone. |
| 1. | Smart Contracts types/pallets - technical specifications | We will provide a detailed technical specification for:<br> - **Configuration Smart Contract** OR **configuration_sc pallet**<br>  - **Operation Smart Contract** OR **operation_sc pallet**<br>  - **Supply Smart Contract** OR **supply_sc pallet**<br>  - **Web2to3 Smart Contract** (utilitzation via the default sc_pallet from FRAME)<br> (reference: [concept](https://logoslabs.io/concept/conceptual-overview-of-the-logos-network.pdf) - section 2.2.3 ) 
| 2. | Smart Contracts types/pallets - development specifications | We will provide a detailed requierment specification for the development of the SC-types OR pallets. |

### Milestone 3 PoC (part one) - Smart Contract Logic delivery

- **Estimated duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  1,5
- **Costs:** 3750 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide a **paragraph/section** about the subject of this milestones in the **Logos Network technical documentation**, which will explain in detail the Implementation of the Smart Contract Logic in Substrate's FRAME an the Logos Network. |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | We will provide non-automated testing,  along with a guide that describes how to run these tests. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test the functionalities delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an **article** after the PoC (part one) is completed, that explains the outcome of the work being done in this grant application. |
| 1. | Smart Contract Logic - pallet/s | We will provide the Smart Contrat Logic pallet or pallets:<br> - **Configuration Smart Contract** OR **configuration_sc pallet**<br>  - **Operation Smart Contract** OR **operation_sc pallet**<br>  - **Supply Smart Contract** OR **supply_sc pallet**<br>  - **Web2to3 Smart Contract** (utilitzation via the default sc_pallet from FRAME) |
| 2. | Substrate node | We will deliver a **basic substrate node** with the Smart Contract Logic pallet within the runtime. |
| 3. | Smart contracts | We will deliver a **set of ink! smart contracts** that will be used to test the base functionalites of every (four) smart contract type 
| 4. | Smart Contract Logic - implementation guide | We will provide a guide on the posible implementation of the Smart Contract Logic in the Substrate Ecosystem (FRAME integration).|

## Future Plans

Once the PoC has been completed, the second phase of the Logos Network PoC will begin.  
In the PoC (part two) the specification and implementation of the Logos Chain (parachain) and the Network Gatakeeper will be provided  
We are intending to fund the PoC (part two) via a follow-up grant (Grant Level 2).
This request will be processed as a separate grant application.

## Additional Information :heavy_plus_sign:

**How did you hear about the Grants Program?** Web3 Foundation Website