# μεράκι (pronounced Meraki)

- **Team Name:** Team μεράκι
- **Payment Details:**
  - **DOT**: 13uv2m7nzgNT9Kyyea8TVZz9TgTL4cAG3QvQj9f2fg6toFGL
  - **Payment**: 13uv2m7nzgNT9Kyyea8TVZz9TgTL4cAG3QvQj9f2fg6toFGL 
- **[Level](https://grants.web3.foundation/docs/Introduction/levels):** 1


## Project Overview :page_facing_up:

If this application is in response to an RFP, please indicate this on the first line of this section.


### Overview

Please provide the following:

μεράκι, aimed at contextual tailored content, moderating content, and offers rewards to its users for posting social media content online. In terms of rewards, this project uses DOT as the only payment gateway to exchange those rewards.  
μεράκι dApp will be designed considering the current Web2 based social media challenges: moderation, fakes news, and privacy concerns. 

To overcome those aforementioned challenges, μεράκι social-media dApp will be developing six borrowable custom-built pallets and parachains (on Polkadot SDK): AI integration (aimed at curbing fake news and content moderation), control of information (with deletion capabilities), (two different modules of) tailored content (without tracking users’ activity).  
Not only social media users could feel they are no longer seeing anything real but also there is also considerable concern about the spread of AI dis/mis-information in fake news form. The Polkadot ecosystem assist in curbing such.

Though it has potential to enhance content creation in social media framework, AI will be integrated by developing a custom-built parachain using the below two modular components:
a custom-built pallet for curbing fake news, and
customised pallet, aimed at moderating content

The interest, for initiating the social media dApp blockchain project, is typically driven by a combination of business imperatives: the desire to solve real-world problems as μεράκι is aimed at removing communication barriers spiral-of-silence, and the opportunity for professional growth and innovation as decentralised social media is currently in the early stages of its technological evolution and the social media market has no limits.

The current Web2 social media setting has three primary issues:
1. Moderation- social media apps (like TikTok, etc.) still expose harmful content online chiefly targeting women and children. Meta's moderation setting is biased, and has planned on removing moderators as a whole by adapting to X's (formerly Twitter) moderation settings. Conversely, several individuals have publicly announced they are leaving X citing its policies and milieu under Elon Musk's leadership.
2. Fake news- it is when articulated with social media content often results in information manipulation. For e.g. the Southport incident in the UK (sparked protests due to misinformation) resulted in Islamophobic and anti-immigrant sentiments.
3. Privacy- social media (like Meta, etc.) can be controlled and other privacy concerns like user data exploitation (for tailored activity), access to accounts. Nepal banned 26 media sites for spotlighting the lavish lifestyles of politicians' children and allegations of corruption in ‘nepo kid’ campaign form. Apart from that, social media in India will be at stake (from April 2026) as the income tax department will have access to those platforms to look for any undisclosed income or valuable items.

Not just that but also, a decentralised Social Media report, which was conducted by EU Blockchain Observatory and Forum, revealed that individuals who have had experience with as well without decentralised social media expertise have favoured both privacy and data ownership.

 μεράκι, backed with Polkadot blockchain, will be aimed at offering the below (within social media framework): 
- Users having absolute control over their information
- Users being offered tailored content based on zero tracking activity
- Restraining fake news and better content moderation

Technical implementation of aforementioned is detailed later beneath the overview.
 Apart from that, it is vital to learn that there were no projects similar to that of the dApp within Polkadot ecosystem; however, there are a few in the blockchain ecosystem.  
According to an MIT report, these projects -Freedom Box, Diaspora, Mastodon, Blockstack, IPFS, Solid, Appcoins, Steemit- which were aimed at but failed to possibly address such as: 

In Security context, IPFS and Blockstack are yet have a good story on how users will manage their private cryptographic keys and gain a good mental model of complex security protocols.


### Project Details
 For mockups/designs and wireframes of UI components, and wireframes detailing a hypothetical case study on how a user logs in, experience it, and logout, please mail me.

dApp Architecture
 Curbing fake news  By tying content (such as write-ups) into a customised project, AI models can access verifiable, provenance-rich data.  
This allows AI in cross-checking the authenticity of news against trusted, on-chain knowledge assets, reducing the risk of misinformation and hallucinated AI responses. OriginTrail’s DKG, secured by Polkadot, enables AI outputs with information provenance and verifiability, which is crucial for fake news detection on social platforms.

Setting OriginTrail’s DKG as an example, μεράκι will have a custom-built feature (of AI integration to detect fake information) alongside considering the below:  
Privacy-Preserving AI Execution  It ensures that sensitive data (such as user reports or flagged content) remains confidential during AI processing, while still providing cryptographic proofs of execution.   This is important for maintaining user trust and privacy on social networks. 
Fact-Checking and Claim Verification   Combination of AI with robust fact-checking frameworks and scam identification guides will be trained to flag potentially false information, which can then be cross-verified using decentralised fact-checking resources and community-driven validation.
To summarise, leveraging decentralised knowledge graphs for verifiable data, deploying privacy-preserving AI agents, using community-driven fact-checking, and implementing proof-of-personhood collectively ensuring authentic participation for integrating AI for fake news detection on a blockchain-based social network. 

In terms of proof-of-personhood, a custom parachain will be developed to create more comprehensive secure ways for identity recognition- letting users create and managing on-chain identities, controlling what data they disclose, requesting verification from other users, and managing sub-identities under a primary account (each with its own bond), which can be create identities for maintaining various pages (such as a fan page, etc.).

Content moderation The other option which will be enabled with AI integration is, moderating content (adhering to Indian digital community standards) apart from the peer-to-peer moderation mechanism. 

By applying natural language processing (NLP) and computer vision to analyse user-generated text, images, and videos for flagging inappropriate content for a human eye, content moderation can be applied on to the μεράκι dApp. 
The above feature of AI integration for curbing fake news (of two pallets) and content moderation  (of one pallet) will be developed which will be integrated into parachain run-time.

Information Control
μεράκι users will be able to delete information at their discretion aligned with Indian Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act, 2023. 

Through a smart contract approach with data deletion capabilities, a custom pallet will be is designed allowing its users to create functions that enable them to delete their data, and further:
This would allow implement custom storage mechanisms in which users have full control over their data lifecycle.
This approach can further help design specific runtime functions for data deletion 

Tailored Content
Polkadot makes it possible for developing a custom ‘tailored content’ parachain however without tracking user activity unlike what Web2 social media apps practice (raising privacy concerns chiefly within social media framework).

Technically, integration of tailored content feature will be built using the below tools and pathways:

Tools:
Smart Contract Development: By using Polkadot’s smart contract platforms, backend logic for the dApp will be developed.   Those platforms are aimed at deploying and interacting with smart contracts that can manage user data, preferences, and content delivery. 
Application Development: By utilising Polkadot’s APIs, frontend will be built and further assist connect the dApp to the blockchain. Those APIs aimed at interacting with on-chain data, managing user sessions, and delivering content. 
Decentralised Storage: Integrating decentralised storage solutions like Crust Network can be made possible to store user-generated content, media, and metadata in a censorship-resistant and resilient way. 
Below is pathways which will be considered (in developing the custom-built pallet) by combining on-chain identity data with the dApp’s own logic, fetched at runtime: 
By using People Chain for decentralised identity (profiles, sub-identities, registrar judgments) to drive personalisation signals (e.g., “verified,” display name), and then applying own content rules off-chain.

Polkadot’s modular and interoperable architecture allows to customise μεράκι logic and user experience, based on above tools and pathways, in a custom-built pallet.

The below will be an additional option a user can opt for advanced tailored options. For obtaining user activity, it will be developed as a separate custom-built pallet: 
Monitoring on-chain events and activities such as custom logs and alerts for the dApp will be developed as a separate feature. 
For identity-linked context for those logs, query identity data (from People Chain) alongside the dApp’s telemetry will be programmatically connected to both chains.

Though Polkadot does not provide data analytical software in the traditional sense, combination of these tools- block explorers, indexers, and monitoring dashboards, will provide robust data analysis capabilities for the Polkadot-based project, μεράκι.

Block Explorers: These serve as comprehensive analytics platforms for blockchain networks, allowing users to query and analyse data in real time through intuitive interfaces. 
Indexers: These solutions offer APIs for retrieving and analysing large or complex datasets from the blockchain, supporting advanced queries. 
Monitoring and Visualisation Tools: Those tools allow collect, monitor, and visualise operational data such as block production, peer connections, CPU usage, and more Runtime Metrics and Monitoring.

The combination of the above three custom pallets will be developed for use in a single parachain.
 
### Ecosystem Fit
 This dApp project absolutely fits in addressing (blockchain based) social media challenges, and they are: 
User-targeted Advertising or Tailored Content: though censorship-resistance and decentralisation are noble goals that will undoubtedly appeal to tech-savvy and politically inclined users, most users are not ideologically motivated and have no interest in shouldering the additional cost and responsibility of running these complex systems directly. 
Security: In the social media setting, anyone can join and it is also challenging to develop software that is both cryptographically secure and easy to use.

As discussed earlier, offering tailored content without tracking user activity is technically possible. While AI functional integration for curbing fake news and content moderation, and Information Control collectively satisfies Security concerns.
 In addition, the target audience will be of μεράκι own user base.


## Team :busts_in_silhouette:


### Team members

- Daruna Teja Naga Bhanu Vijay
- Names of team members: n/a

### Contact

- **Contact Name:** Daruna Teja Naga Bhanu Vijay
- **Contact Email:** dtnbhanuvijay@gmail.com
- **Website:** linkedin.com/in/dtnbv/

### Legal Structure

- **Registered Address:** yet to be registered as it’s still in ideation stage
- **Registered Legal Entity:** yet to be registered as it’s still in ideation stage

### Team's experience

The relevant experience includes establishing and operating a blockchain-like mechanism in [Odds Space Post news blog](https://dtnbhanuvijay.wixsite.com/oddsspacepost) form for four and a half years (2017–2021). Also having acquired specialised technical expertise in blockchain technology and computer science through MOOCs offered by HarvardX and edX. 

In undergraduate program, an Android application was developed for UNICEF via the Children In Media Experiments (CHIME) program, aimed at enhancing social communication skills among underprivileged children. Currently, stationed as a freelance full-stack developer at a media management consultancy, managing strategic communications to acquire traditional leads and single-handedly overseeing the organisation's social media division.


### Team Code Repos

- https://github.com/dtnbv


Please also provide the GitHub accounts of all team members. If they contain no activity, references to projects hosted elsewhere or live are also fine.

- https://github.com/dtnbv


### Team LinkedIn Profiles (if available)

- linkedin.com/in/dtnbv/


## Development Status :open_book:


## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt:


### Overview

- **Total Estimated Duration:** 9 months
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):**  1 FTE
- **Total Costs:** 7,500 USD
- **DOT %:** 50% of total costs can be paid in DOT

### Milestone 1 — AI (integration for curbing fake news and moderating content)

- **Estimated duration:** 3 months
- **FTE:**  1.0
- **Costs:** 2,500 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 |
| **0b.** | Documentation | I will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic document or video tutorial detailing how a user can use three pallets separately as well as integrate with in a single parachain all together. In addition, the documentation will be made public. |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| **0d.** | Docker | I will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | I will publish a public article/workshop that details the functioning of these three pallets under one parachain as it is a private project. In addition, I can give a brief note upon request on what was achieved as a part of the grant. |
| 1. | Pallet: 1 | A custom pallet, which will be have an algorithm that involving absolute privacy-preserving execution. |
| 2. | Pallet: 2 | A custom pallet, which will be using NLP and computer vision, aimed to filtering data. |
| 3. | Pallet: 3 | A custom pallet, which will define comprehensive secure ways for identity recognition. |
| 4. | Parachain: 1 | Combination of above (three) pallets simultaneously at a faster pace |

 
### Milestone 2 — Information Control

- **Estimated duration:** 3 months
- **FTE:**  1.0
- **Costs:** 2,500 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 |
| **0b.** | Documentation | I will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic document or video tutorial detailing how a user can use three pallets separately as well as integrate with in a single parachain all together. In addition, the documentation will be made public. |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| **0d.** | Docker | I will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | I will publish a public article/workshop that details the functioning of these three pallets under one parachain as it is a private project. In addition, I can give a brief note upon request on what was achieved as a part of the grant. |
| 1. | Pallet: 4 | A custom pallet which will be having data deleting capabilities |


### Milestone 3 — Tailored Content feature

- **Estimated duration:** 3 months
- **FTE:**  1.0
- **Costs:** 2,500 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 |
| **0b.** | Documentation | I will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic document or video tutorial detailing how a user can use three pallets separately as well as integrate with in a single parachain all together. In addition, the documentation will be made public. |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| **0d.** | Docker | I will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | I will publish a public article/workshop that details the functioning of these three pallets under one parachain as it is a private project. In addition, I can give a brief note upon request on what was achieved as a part of the grant. |
| 1. | Pallet: 5 | A custom pallet will be built aiming front-end and back-end logic and integrated with storage solutions |
| 1. | Pallet: 6 | A custom pallet will be aiming front-end and back-end logic and integrated with storage solutions alongside considering conglomeration of block explorers, indexers, and monitoring dashboards, aimed at tracking user activity |
| 1. | Parachain: 3 | A custom parachain which will have functionality of both Pallets 4 and 5; however the latter pallet will be activated upon user opting a certain feature. |

## Future Plans

Please include here

  Upon developing code in pallets and parachains form, front-end as in UI will be developed to test the MVP.

## Referral Program (optional) :moneybag:


## Additional Information :heavy_plus_sign:
 I heard about the Grants Program via Web3 Foundation Website.  μεράκι, a greek word, pronounced Meraki and meaning things you pursue with passion. 

Due to the project being patentable chiefly for its UI designs and mechanism, the mockups and wireframes can be mailed separately.

The project has been bootstrapped in developing UI.
